hello it's Ruby and today I'm going to
be talking to you about rewards and how
these can actually be inhibiting the
productivity and motivation in the long
run so I know that this sounds
paradoxical one thing which we are
taught in schools something which is
pretty much ingrained in our culture is
the idea that rewards are good rewards
can sustain motivation rewards will keep
you motivated so one of the study tips
which I've seen thrown around quite a
bit is the idea of leaving chocolate or
jelly beans at some point in your book
so that when you reach it you get you
get that as a reward but today I'm going
to tell you a little bit about why this
might not be the best way to structure
study sessions and to keep you motivated
so I recently read a book called drive
by David H pink this really got me
thinking about motivation and I went
away and I did some research I read some
academic papers I looked at studies and
I was really shocked by what I found
because I wasn't expecting to see this
now I've never really used a
rewards-based system when I'm studying
I've tried it once or twice but I always
found myself getting distracted much
more easily after I'd had the reward and
I just son in the long run it didn't
really work for me so what I learnt when
I was researching really resonated with
me because I could understand it from
personal experience so dull tasks can
actually benefit from rewards if you're
doing something really monotonous like
stacking boxes and if-then reward can
actually be really great for giving you
a motivational booster shot however in a
study with Dan Ariely
with students from MIT it was found that
tasks that had even the smallest
requirement of cognitive ability showed
a decrease in performance and
productivity when rewards were used to
motivate and this Arrietty claims is
because you're focused on the reward as
opposed to the task in question so your
main intention is to finish the task so
that you can get the reward which is
pretty much common sense right if we
know that we've got a chocolate bar
waiting for us we can't wait to get
through the materials so that we can eat
the chocolate bar but the danger here is
that we turn what we are doing
intrinsically into work and in our minds
it becomes work it becomes something
which is to be of
I did and that's quite a dangerous
mindset to fool into you I know I've
spoken about this before my channel but
one thing I massively advocate for is
trying to make studying for example fun
it should be something enjoyable because
if it's not you just don't feel as
motivated to go ahead doing it and so
the very premise of using rewards to
motivate you means that you are
indirectly saying that that task is work
and the reward is play and the dangerous
thing here is that we only tend to do
what will qualify us to get that reward
so we won't do anything else once we've
reached that part in the textbook we can
eat that chocolate bar and we're done
you know we can move on to the next
thing that prevents us from going
further so if he's not within the
studying context that would prevent you
from going ahead and learning something
because you found it really interesting
however from a Productivity standpoint a
psychologist dasi found that whilst it
gives you some motivation in the short
term in the long term it actually
decreases your motivation so one of
Dusty's most famous studies was with
something called the soma puzzle and
basically this is where you have a
selection of cubes put them together so
that they can form the structure which
you are shown on a piece of card and
Jesse basically asked his participants
to do this could give them a picture
give them the cubes and then they had to
assemble the cubes into the picture
which they were given so with one of the
groups he paid the money so for every
one that they did correctly they would
get $1 and then the other group
basically were just told to do it
then they took a break and Dassey had
left some magazines for both groups
which they could look through if they
wanted to you whilst they were on the
break it was found that those who were
in the group that was paid were much
more likely to read the magazines than
those who want more of those people were
found to continue working on the puzzle
and they show something really really
interesting Jesse says when money is
used as an external reward for some
activity the subjects lose intrinsic
interest for the activity and that's
really damaging when we're thinking
about motivation in the long run and so
if we're going to sustain motivation in
tasks that we do rewards aren't actually
that good of thing rather we need to
treat the activity as a kind of reward
in itself we need to appreciate it
intrinsically I wonder whether it be
beneficial for us to have a shift in our
terminology so instead of thinking
our tasks is work we should be thinking
about them as play not only this but in
terms of breaks I wonder whether it
would be beneficial for us to move away
from this idea of breaks as a reward
because that again makes the activity
that you're doing in itself stops being
a reward it stops being useful in itself
rather why not use the terminology I'm
going to do something else for a little
bit to refresh my mind or body and also
I wonder what the implications here are
for the education system which is
obviously heavily based on grade which
is quite a large reward so basically
there's some food for thought next time
that you think about putting a jelly
bean on your page to motivate you to
study think about it whilst this is
probably going to increase your
motivation in the short term it's
probably going to decrease your
motivation in the long term and which
one is more important I really hope that
you enjoyed watching this video it's
very different to what I usually film
but I hope that it's helpful I just
found this book really interesting and I
wanted to share some of the bits that I
found with you but thank you so much for
watching this video I hope you enjoyed
and I hope that you have a productive
week